[All Hosts] (debugging) fix articles about debug with VSC extension (#3211)
OfficeDev/office-js-docs-pr: docs/testing/debug-with-vs-extension.md

---
title: Debug add-ins on Windows using Visual Studio Code and Microsoft Edge legacy WebView (EdgeHTML)
description: 'Learn how to debug Office Add-ins that use Microsoft Edge Legacy WebView (EdgeHTML) by using the Office Add-in Debugger Extension in VS Code.'
ms.date: 02/01/2022
ms.localizationpriority: medium
---

# Microsoft Office Add-in Debugger Extension for Visual Studio Code

> Office Add-ins running on Windows can use the Office Add-in Debugger Extension in Visual Studio Code to debug against Microsoft Edge Legacy with the original webView (EdgeHTML) runtime. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Office Add-ins running on Windows can use the Office Add-in Debugger Extension in Visual Studio Code to debug against Microsoft Edge Legacy with the original WebView (EdgeHTML) runtime. 
```

> [!IMPORTANT]

> > This article only applies when Office runs add-ins in the original webView (EdgeHTML) runtime, as explained in [Browsers used by Office Add-ins](../concepts/browsers-used-by-office-web-add-ins.md). For instructions about debugging in Visual Studio code against Microsoft Edge WebView2 (Chromium-based), [see this article](debug-desktop-using-edge-chromium.md).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> This article only applies when Office runs add-ins in the original WebView (EdgeHTML) runtime, as explained in [Browsers used by Office Add-ins](../concepts/browsers-used-by-office-web-add-ins.md). For instructions about debugging in Visual Studio code against Microsoft Edge WebView2 (Chromium-based), see [Microsoft Office Add-in Debugger Extension for Visual Studio Code](debug-desktop-using-edge-chromium.md).
```

![Office Add-in Debugger Extension debugging a section of Excel add-ins.](../images/vs-debugger-extension-for-office-addins.jpg)

## Prerequisites

- [Visual Studio Code](https://code.visualstudio.com/)
- [Node.js (version 10+)](https://nodejs.org/)
- Windows 10, 11
- [Microsoft Edge](https://www.microsoft.com/edge) A combination of platform and Office application that supports Microsoft Edge Legacy with with the original webview (EdgeHTML) as explained in [Browsers used by Office Add-ins](../concepts/browsers-used-by-office-web-add-ins.md).

## Install and use the debugger

These instructions assume you have experience using the command line, understand basic JavaScript, and have created an Office Add-in project before using the Yo Office generator. If you haven't done this before, consider visiting one of our tutorials, like this [Excel Office Add-in tutorial](../tutorials/excel-tutorial.md).

1. The first step depends on the project and how it was created.

>    - If you want to create a project to experiment with debugging in Visual Studio Code, use the [Yeoman generator for Office Add-ins](https://github.com/OfficeDev/generator-office). You can use any one of our quick start guides, such as the [Outlook add-in quickstart](../quickstarts/outlook-quickstart.md), in order to do this. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   - If you want to create a project to experiment with debugging in Visual Studio Code, use the [Yeoman generator for Office Add-ins](https://github.com/OfficeDev/generator-office). Use any one of our quick start guides, such as the [Outlook add-in quickstart](../quickstarts/outlook-quickstart.md), in order to do this. 
```

   - If you want to debug an existing project that was created with Yo Office, skip to the next step.
   - If you want to debug an existing project that was not created with Yo Office, carry out the procedure in the [Appendix](#appendix) and then return to the next step of this procedure.

1. Open VS Code and open your project in it. 

1. Within VS Code, select **Ctrl+Shift+X** to open the Extensions bar. Search for the "Microsoft Office Add-in Debugger" extension and install it.

1. hoose  **View > Run** or enter **Ctrl+Shift+D** to switch to debug view.

1. From the **RUN AND DEBUG** options, choose the Edge Legacy option for your host application, such as **Excel Desktop (Edge Legacy)**. Select **F5** or choose **Run > Start Debugging** from the menu to begin debugging. This action automatically launches a local server in a Node window to host your add-in and then automatically opens the host application, such as Excel or Word. This may take several seconds.

> 1. In the host application, your add-in is now ready to use. Select **Show Taskpane** or run any other add-in command. A dialog box will appear, reading:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. In the host application, your add-in is now ready to use. Select **Show Taskpane** or run any other add-in command. A dialog box with the following text appears.
```

Author: ```suggestion
1. In the host application, your add-in is now ready to use. Select **Show Taskpane** or run any other add-in command. A dialog box will appear similar to the following:
```

   > WebView Stop On Load.

>    > To debug the webview, attach VS Code to the webview instance using the Microsoft Debugger for Edge extension, and click OK to continue. To prevent this dialog from appearing in the future, click Cancel.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   > To debug the WebView, attach VS Code to the WebView instance using the Microsoft Debugger for Edge extension, and click **OK** to continue. To prevent this dialog from appearing in the future, click **Cancel**.
```

   Select **OK**.

   > [!NOTE]
   > If you select **Cancel**, the dialog won't be shown again while this instance of the add-in is running. However, if you restart your add-in, you'll see the dialog again.

> 1. Set a breakpoint in your project's task pane file. You can set breakpoints in Visual Studio Code by hovering next to a line of code and selecting the red circle which appears.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Set a breakpoint in your project's task pane file. To set breakpoints in Visual Studio Code, hover next to a line of code and select the red circle that appears.
```

    ![Red circle appears on a line of code in Visual Studio Code.](../images/set-breakpoint.jpg)

> 1. Run functionality in your add-in that calls the lines with breakpoints. You will see that breakpoints have been hit and you can inspect local variables.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Run functionality in your add-in that calls the lines with breakpoints. You'll see that breakpoints have been hit and you can inspect local variables.
```

- [Visual Studio Code](https://code.visualstudio.com/) (must be run as an administrator)
- [Node.js (version 10+)](https://nodejs.org/)
- Windows 10, 11
- [Microsoft Edge](https://www.microsoft.com/edge) A combination of platform and Office application that supports Microsoft Edge Legacy with with the original webview (EdgeHTML) as explained in [Browsers used by Office Add-ins](../concepts/browsers-used-by-office-web-add-ins.md).

## Install and use the debugger

These instructions assume you have experience using the command line, understand basic JavaScript, and have created an Office Add-in project before using the Yo Office generator. If you haven't done this before, consider visiting one of our tutorials, like this [Excel Office Add-in tutorial](../tutorials/excel-tutorial.md).

1. If you need to create an add-in project to experiment with debugging in Visual Studio Code, [use the Yo Office generator to create one](../quickstarts/excel-quickstart-jquery.md?tabs=yeomangenerator). Follow the prompts within the command line to set up your project. You can choose any language or type of project to suit your needs. If you want to debug an existing project, skip to the next step.

> 1. Open VS Code *as an administrator* and open your project in it. 

Reviewer 2: I don't believe using an administrator account is needed.

1. Within VS Code, select **Ctrl+Shift+X** to open the Extensions bar. Search for the "Microsoft Office Add-in Debugger" extension and install it.

1. Next, choose  **View > Run** or enter **Ctrl+Shift+D** to switch to debug view.

1. From the **RUN AND DEBUG** options, choose the Edge Legacy option for your host application, such as **Excel Desktop (Edge Legacy)**. Select **F5** or choose **Run > Start Debugging** from the menu to begin debugging. This action automatically launches a local server in a Node window to host your add-in and then automatically opens the host application, such as Excel or Word. This may take several seconds.

> 

Reviewer 2: I noticed a comment about project not built with the yeoman generator earlier . . . those projects wouldn't have the launch.json configs mentioned here and they would have to add them.

Author: Done

Author: Fixed. Added appendix to explain this.
